[MUSIC]
As you might expect with object data, it
is data relating explicitly to an object.
So even if you used the same class, as we
saw
in the last video, where we had people and
people, too.
The data restored explicitly within the
object and not the class, which allows
many different instances of the same
object, or the same class
rather to be called and to be treated as
separate objects, and
now you saw that we were doing something
with variables.
And we were assessing the variable and
once we were doing
that we were able to fetch it using the
display method.
So we're going to do something similar
here,
but we're going to give it a scalability.
So get, create a classical example and we
just do, the
init, oops, there we go, and what
we need to do here is we're going to pass
up something called the keyword argument.
But to do this we do two asterisks
and then KWARGS which stands for keyword
arguments.
Now the reason why we're going two
asterisk, is because
that stands for a dictionary, and so what
we're doing
here is we're passing an unspecified
amount of parameters which
can be zero or more in the form of a
dictionary.
Now if we were to just pass in one
asterisk,
it would do it in the form of a tuple.
But we want it in front of add dictionary,
so we
go to, must end with with two asterisks,
and then a KWARGS.
From here we're going to do self.variables
is equal to, and then we just do KWARGS.
So you don't need to put yesterdays in
this part, but
just tells you if you're even creating as
a actual dictionary.
So, that is just telling you the type that
ou want to give it.
So KWARGS is what tells it whether we want
it to be a dictionary.
So, now that we've done that and we go and
create another.
Method and we're going to call this one,
get, actually no, accept vars, accept
variables and we
have to pass it into self and we're going
to pass it in a key and a value.
The reason why I'm using k and v just to
make it shorter
and easier to type, however you can just
call it whatever you want.
Now the key is going to be the index
value.
Of of the array that we're going to
create, which is going to be in the
self.variables.
And the v is going to be the value that
we're passing to set it as.
And the reason why we do this is because
if you were to set a variable and,
I'm sorry, yeah, if you set a variable
outside
of a class, so you explic, explicitly set
it.
For example, if we did var = Example, and
then if we did var.variable_name = 15, for
example.
And if we had the variable within here,
which we could
use, then that would make it so if it's
hard to keep
track of, so the reason why we're doing a
getter and a
setter, function is to make it so
variables can be set easily.
And we can keep track of them and it makes
things much easier to control
and much easier to manage once you get to
bigger programs that you might have.
So what we have here is we're setting a
function, or we're recreating a
function which will set all of the values,
all of the right, variables
we need for this program with only, the
use of two functions, one
to set and one to get, whereas previously
you, we might have done it where.
We set and we declared each one
individually.
However, once you get to, say, more than 5
variables, then it
gets out of hand and then your program
gets exponentially large unnecessarily.
So we are going to do is we're going to
pass in the key and the value,
and what we're going to do here, we're
going to do self.variables.
And because it is a dictionary, which
we're going to create, because
the KWARGS is a form of a dictionary,
being set to variables.
So variables is essentially an array of a
dictionary.
So we can declare it using the square
brackets,
as we've learned earlier on in and within
the course.
And we can make it equal to the value.
So that's all we need to do for that, and
then for the get_vars all we need
to do is pass in the key, and we can fetch
that variable that we need based on that.
So self.variables.get, and that
will take two parameters, and that is a
function which is related to the inner,
a dictionary .get is what we can use in a
dictionary to find a certain value and get
it back.
So what we'd use here if we use K then do
comma,
then this is the default value, so we're
just gonna pass in none.
And so, if we go over which ever looking
for is not found, then it should be
returned none.
Exempt, or we could add a return to this
as well,
so if we're to shows this and do rather
git vals
and then ask to create or to ask for Alex.
If we were to run this,
oh sorry, need to print this.
So if we were to run this, you'll see that
we get none because the
variable has not been set, where if we
were to set a variable, so var dot.
Set vars, and that was to do Alex, okay I
should change
this to name, and the name is gonna be the
value of Alex.
So we're just gonna search for name, and
if we run this, you'll see
that Alex is returned, because that is the
value in which we are looking for.
So, as you can see, everything that, we
would have previously had to do, if,
for setting, and getting variables, can
now be done with just two functions.
And, the KWRAGS, here.
So, if, we can ask to do extra things, so
i'll do.
Age
is equal to, and that's 17, and I can
do location is equal to UK.
Now, if I was to again print
var.getVarsAndLocation,
[BLANK_AUDIO]
And if I was to run that again, oops,.
Okay that, run it.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Hm.
Oh, yeah, sorry.
The mistake here is about we shouldn't
have these
quotes around the actual data, dictionary
entries
and the reason for that is because we
actually are setting
these as being a not a string but a, a
sorta allocation.
So, if we move the quotes around the age
and the location.
And we run this again you'll see that we
get the right answers out so here we're
setting the dictionary values for KWARGS,
as being age and location.
And we can fetch location and if we change
that to age, we can fetch the age as well,
sorry.
We can fetch the age as well.
And, so, as you can see, we can, mess
around, and this is scalable, because all
we need
to do is pass in the variables here, here,
or we can set them using this as well.
So, there's two different ways in which
you can set variable.
We don't have to declare how many
variables are being set, and
we can fetch all of them or any of them
that we wish.
So that is how you get proper
scalability while using object oriented
programming within Python.
So thank you for watching and I will see
you